All right.
So in this video I want to show you how to drop certain undesirable rows from a data frame.
And I also want to show you how we can change up the heat index on our data frame to add document ideas
to track these emails.
So numbering these emails sequentially rather than with these unintelligible file names that we've got
by default.
So our first goal is dropping these three rows here with the index by the name of commands CMBS and
dropping the index with the name dot D's underscore store.
So add a little markdown cell here and that's going to read for move system file entries from data frame
and the way we're gonna do this is using the data frames drop function.
So this is a method that takes a couple of arguments.
Right.
It needs to know which file names to drop.
So I'm going to apply that has a list.
Square brackets.
Single quotes and then CMBS comma single quotes dot D.S. underscore store.
Now remember no typos here and you'll succeed.
So as it is this will drop the three rows with this index and it will drop the one row with this index.
What we could do is we could overwrite our data data frame with this modified version here so we can
drop the rows and we can overwrite the data that's stored in our data frame.
But the alternative of doing it this way is supplying another argument to this method and that's called
in place in place is set to false by default.
And if we set it to true then we don't have to do this we just can write the method like so and it will
update our data frame.
Now before I had shift enter on the cell let me copy this line of code here and pasted here just to
make sure that this road does indeed disappear.
Let's take a look.
All right.
So the entire thing shift it up so we're not seeing the same emails right here.
We're having a different number of rows.
So it seems to have worked.
Let's take a look at what the shape is of our data frame now.
Data dot shape gives us five thousand seven hundred and ninety six.
So four entries have been dropped and this is how we've done it.
Brilliant.
Now let's replace these index names.
Let's change these index names to something else.
Maybe just some numbers right.
So let's just number our roads from one to five thousand seven hundred and ninety six.
I'll quickly add a markdown cell and to see and document I.D. to track emails in data set.
We're going to be doing some manipulation of these e-mails.
So it's going to be quite nice to be able to have a specific I.D. associated with each specific email
so we can pull it up refer to it later on.
Let's generate our document I.D. first sort so create a variable called document underscore I.D. and
this will be equal to the values it's a zero to five thousand seven hundred and ninety six.
So we can use you in built range function from Python starting from zero and going through the length
of our data frame.
So data dot index will give us the length of our data frame.
Let's take a look at what this looks like document I.D. is now a range from zero to five thousand seven
hundred ninety six.
We're not printing out the individual numbers here but that actually doesn't change how we can use this
object.
So we can create a new column say data square brackets single quotes Yossi underscore I.D. dock I.D.
and set that equal to our document I.D. And if we take a look at what this actually looks like then
we would get something like so we'd still have our file names as the index but now we have a column
with all the document I.D. from zero to five thousand seven hundred and ninety five.
Right.
Ninety five.
Why.
Because it's this length minus one right.
There's five thousand seven hundred and ninety six entries.
But since we start counting from zero the last entry is five thousand seven hundred and ninety five.
All right.
So this is what a new column looks like.
Fair enough.
Now let's shift all these file names into another column.
I'll say data square brackets single quotes file and a square name all in caps is equal to data don't
index the index being these flames right him.
This will create a new column with all these file names so if I see data dot head now what we see is
we've got our index we've got our category here we've got the message column we've got the document
I.D. column and we've got the filing column which at the moment is the same as our index.
However what I'm going to do now is I'm going to set my index to be equal to my document I.D. and the
way we can do this is simply by saying data is equal to data dot set on the score index.
So this is a method on our data frame and we simply specify duck under school I.D. in single quotes.
If I hit shift enter now this will update but similar to our drop method which had this in place parameter
here that we can set.
True we can do the very very same thing with set index shift tab on my keyboard brings up the quick
documentation and I can see here that we can change this here to true as well and then get rid of this
bit of code and right come here.
And then in place is equal to true.
This will accomplish the exact same thing here's what it looks like.
Now we've got our document I.D. as our index.
We've got our category 1 for spam 0 for non spam our email bodies in the message column and our file
names.
We've preserved as a separate column in our data frame fantastic.
Now let's quickly check what the end of our data frame looks like.
Data dump tail we can see the last five rows the last row has the document eighty five thousand seven
hundred and ninety five.
That holds the message body starting with the words.
If you run all right.
So we've done a lot of data cleaning now.
We've extracted our relevant data from the raw text files namely the email bodies.
We've converted them into a data frame.
We've checked for empty emails and we've checked for no missing values as well.
And then we've dropped all the rows that didn't contain an email body from our panties data from.